THE WINGS OF TIME
Time is often hard to comprehend, for she can be our enemy or she can be our friend.
She can mark the joy that welcomes a beginning or the sorrow that envelopes an end.
We all have similar experiences sharing the joy of a special day
Or the sorrow of the date a loved one passed away.
We are in each moment for a second only...and then that moment’s gone
Replaced by the next one, then the next one as Time moves ever on.
If that moment is a joyful one we wish for time to journey slow
We are glad we had that moment but sad to see it go.
If that moment is a sorrowful one tis Time we want to blame
We curse her arrival, we plead and wish that moment never came.
But be it joyous or be it sorrowful Time moves straight and she moves swift
And it makes me think as I sit and wonder...perhaps that is her gift.
I do not believe it is Time’s intention to aggravate or annoy
She is only seeking balance between our sorrow and our joy.
Finding joy in a joyful moment is easy and sublime
But finding joy after sorrow, well, that takes a little time.
Perhaps that’s why our yesterdays so quickly become tomorrows
To give our joys more opportunities to overtake our sorrows
Then once a year she returns to that day without malice or regret
To remind us we can find joy even though the sorrow we’ll never forget.
One year ago today a lunatic entered an elementary school and took
The lives of 20 children and 6 adults in a place called Sandy Hook.
Time has come full circle, for that’s what Time does, don’t you see?
And once again she brings us face to face with that senseless tragedy.
Yes they were taken too soon, yes many lives that day were destroyed
But if all we do is dwell on this then we lose sight of any joy.
As we recall the senseless deaths, all those horrible memories this day revives
We must remember the joy was not in their deaths it was in the beauty of their lives.
There will always be a sorrow attached to this day, that is clear
But I hope they to find some joy as Time revisits them each year.
I can’t imagine these people’s pain as out of this abyss they try to climb.
I can only pray their ride gets easier as they travel on the wings of time.

