FORUM ASSORTED NUTS AND DOLTS-RATIONALIZATION
He wakes to stench- that familiar putrescence wafting over the knoll partly disguising his presence from the tallstanders.  Creeping over the rise, he forces himself to ignore  the assault on his olfactory sensitivity. There’s work to be done. Down below, in the ersatz compound occupying what used to be his backyard, they’re already at play.
Scuffing low through the nettles, he finds the perimeter. The wrongness of the place infiltrates his footpads, leeching upwards through his legs like septicemia. Poison. Peering out, he witnesses the scene that’s repeated every day he takes the time to come and look. The sport of the two-legs is already in progress. Males and females in masks, dancing to a tune he cannot hear. It is a dance of madness. A dance of sickness. Spellbound, he observes the ritual.
One male dances in his direction, but there is no danger; he knows he is will hidden. Instead, the male approaches one of the smaller females, a bright smile on his mask the color of fresh blood. The female responds, hesitantly, but at the last moment backs away, as it is readily apparent the two’s intentions are not reconciled. In anger, the rejected male pushes her to the ground, and his previous tones of  confraternity devolves into the form coyote has come to interpret as malice. Known associates of the offender, male and female conspirators alike, converge on the fallen female, casting indignities upon her supine form until she begins to weep. Others not of that pack stand by listlessly, doing nothing, as if they have been stricken with sun blindness. Somehow all these responses satisfy them, and they leave the female to her sorrowfulness in search of fresh prey.
Coyote watches as variations of this behavior are displayed again and again across the open field fronting the compound. Against his better judgment, he feels the excruciating stiffening of his hackles. His haunches lower automatically, and harden, until he finds himself in a low crouch. He hesitates a few moments longer, and then, even knowing by long experience what the results will be, he springs from his hiding place!  His attention immediately centers on one of the leaders of the malevolent pack.  The twolegs, sensing the danger, seeks to lose himself in the assemblage of vacant-eyed bystanders, but coyote is resolute. At the last moment, he leaps straight at the throat of the offensive one, fangs bared.
POOF! Coyote passes right through his intended target like a hind through mist. He hits the ground rolling, then rises and looks back. Though unhurt, the misdoer begins making high-pitched preening sounds from a vocal sack beneath the lump of his chin, and many of the others immediately move in his direction...petting him, frisking his hair, even fawning over him as if he were a true victim. Coyote shakes his head; not in disbelief, but in consternation at his own actions. He’d known what the result would be. It was always the same. For coyote had learned long ago that this was a place of the human damned, a desert where weak and fell spirits roamed, no doubt replaying, again and again, the lives which had delivered them here in the first place.
Hunched and with tail dragging, coyote quietly exits the compound, retreating back to his den to feed his cubs, and start the day afresh. There would be much to teach, and much to learn, and in the end, he knows his folly comes to nothing. Besides...he needs the exercise.

