CHAIN OF LOVE AND PEACE
One moment of love and peace,
Several moments of love and peace, it can make.
Several moments of love and peace,
One minute of love and peace, it can make.
One minute of love and peace,
Several minutes of love and peace, it can make.
Several minutes of love and peace,
One hour of love and peace, it can make.
One hour of love and peace,
Several hours of love and peace, it can make.
One hour of love and peace,
Several hours of love and peace, it can make.
Several hours of love and peace,
One day of love and peace, it can make.
One day of love and peace,
Several days of love and peace, it can make.
Several days of love and peace,
One week of love and peace, it can make.
One week of love and peace,
Several weeks of love and peace, it can make.
Several weeks of love and peace,
One month of love and peace, it can make.
One month of love and peace,
Several months of love and peace, it can make.
Several months of love and peace,
One year of love and peace, it can make
One year of love and peace,
Several years of love and peace, it can make
Several years of love and peace,
One life of love and peace, it can make
One life of love and peace,
Several lives of love and peace, it can make
Several lives of love and peace,
One family of love and peace, it can make
One family of love and peace,
Several families of love and peace, it can make
Several families of love and peace,
One village of love and peace, it can make
One village of love and peace,
Several villages of love and peace, it can make
Several villages of love and peace,
One community of love and peace, it can make
One community of love and peace,
Several communities of love and peace, it can make
Several communities of love and peace,
One country of love and peace, it can make
One country of love and peace,
Several countries of love and peace, it can make
Several countries of love and peace,
One world of love and peace, it can make
One world of love and peace,
One eternity of love and peace, it can make
One moment of love and peace,
One eternity of love and peace, it can make
So, why doesn’t it?
Because this is same for hate and war…

