A LOVING, CARING GODDESS
A Loving, Caring Goddess
by Lawanna Holt
The Goddess is a loving and caring Goddess.
Goddess is your loving, caring mother.
She is  a loving, caring Goddess.
She ease your pain and hurt when you have it.
She melts all the haltered towards you by your family.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She makes you have a better day when it's going bad.
She makes your life go better at home if it bad at home.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She is always there for you when you need her.
She is there for you when even if you don't think you have no one.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She is there for you when you think you have no one to turn too & no one cares about you.
She cares about you; when you think no one gives a care about you.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She cares a lot about her children.
She cares about the safety of her children.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She loves and cares about her children so much it means a lot to her children.
The Goddess means a lot to her children.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She is a mother figure to all the children that doesn't have a mom living.
She is a loving, caring mother look up to by all the children who has mother not living.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She means everything to everyone.
She means a lot to everyone.
She is a loving, caring Goddess.
She is a mother to everyone.
She is a loving, caring mother to everyone.
She is a loving, caring Goddess
Author's Notes: start date: 5/27/05 finish date: 6/4/05
I wrote this to let the Goddess know how I feel about her and how she means so much to me. If you ever think you have no one to turn to for help or just to talk someone remember this poem and remember the Goddess is always there for you for anything. I'm working on another poem called Wiccan Heart. I will post it when I'm done writing it. Hopefully this poem let you know the Goddess is always there for you for anything you need and she is a very loving, caring Goddess. Blessed Thee

