SURPRISES
My life's been full of surprises
And I never knew I predicted them all until after the fact
Until after the fall
And how could I act to protect or prevent
With the inactive knowledge of 90 percent
Misreading the message my mind sent
Fleeting time misspent.
Mistaking every red cent I was making for meaning
Forsaking eating
For taking nine times the beating.
Repeating of course with every mind's meeting
Repeating of course with every mind'...REPRISING! !
By now it can't be surprising to get hit there again at the same point of rising
Surprised, that it took this long till I realized I'm hearing the same song
I'm tearing the same scab
Until I start wearing the fail of fearing..........
The FEAR of FAILING! ! Stop screaming, nobody views
Till I start unveiling the news that I'm bailing so I can't lose.......
Did I mention I'm a little demented, I meant to in a message I sent you
I was afraid I'd offend you, the first friend who stayed that I ever made
Surprised? ? ? ?
We all go from solar to lunatic lunar
Bi polar no sooner then our sane sense is thrown UNconvenience
An unexpected scene, and it's no big deal, but that's not how we feel
I heard the warning about global warming
Unusual storm on a summer morning
And winter's too warm to put up the awning
I know it's bad form to make fun of those
Who worry of too much sun and skimpy clothes
Not enough sneezing or pantyhose
It's all pretty pleasing cause everyone knows
That Global freezing REALLY blows
But I talk a lot and I've gotten behind
Something is rotten in my state of mind
To begin I've forgotten and dotted the 'T's
Cause I'm crossing my eyes to hit the high 'C's in the skies
But on to the final surprise....... I am too sedate, for a man this great
I don't mean to self deprecate
But it's often the author to offer critique
Of his meaningless prattle and mindless speak
That previous battles made him too weak
To look for the truth, or search for proof in the sink
Seeking the source of the stink....
This 'He' of course I reference is me
In deference to differences, preferences
Peace in severe severance under the sheets and through the disguises
Two me's meet, and there are no more surprises

