ITS LUNCH HOUR COME AT LAST
A 'bakkie' is a light truck. 'Tannie' is Afrikaans for 'Aunty'.
This poem was written a few years before the release of Nelson Mandela.
My friend J. whose halo has slipped
To surround his face
Has left his job to write, and think
And happy surprise
From some arbitary clerk
Bureaucracy's answer to the careless and arbitary
Between minute bites at a thin sliced sandwich
Precisely trimmed for the trim and precise
Smeared with a plasma, technology's answer
To the cow, the farm and good farm butter
Tap tap tapping, locating, hmmmm
'A thousand bucks! ' J of course delighted
'And just when I could use it! '
The clerk was neither delighted nor surprised
Her life as smashed as if a giant foot, big
As an office block with raking claws
Had crashed down right in the middle of it
Bleak, hair tangled, puffed leaky eyes
Distracts herself, and me, afraid I'm bored
Perhaps, by her 'ridiculous' going on
By telling a story about a teacher who just
Disappeared '... a line in The Sowetan
Not his wife... his family... '
The clerk was neither delighted nor surprised
And what rough beast, with self-correcting slouch
Printed circuits and uncomplaining meat
Complaining metal, fingers and probes
Delicate as the trunk of an elephant
For a pin among needles, to find just so
The appropriate amount, leave pay, pension fund
As the claws rake down, or delicately pick
At the pimple on the jaw of the jowelled leader
Preparing to give the thing a face
The clerk was neither delighted nor
But is this its face on the scrambled screen
Packed like a sandwich between commercials, glossy soaps
Coke ads, deodorants, roll-on global war
Tough bakkies, Freestate tannies, sophisticated
Farm-proud, extolling the virtues of this or that whatever
The clerk was neither
If this is...  can it now sincerely answer
Renouncing the aid of scriptwriters, ad-men
Those faces sniffed out, snuffed out who
Before they blew away posed
By bread and blood and making
The clerk was neither delighted nor
By bread and blood and making
The clerk was neither delighted nor
By delight and blood and making
The clerk was bloody delighted making
By bread surprised and baking
The beast begins to turn?

